Prepared Remarks:

Operator

Hello, and welcome to Albemarle Corporation's Q2 2023 earnings call. [Operator instructions] I will now hand it over to Meredith Bandy, vice president of investor relations and sustainability.

Meredith Bandy -- Vice President, Investor Relations and Sustainability

Thank you, Aisha, and welcome, everyone, to Albemarle's second-quarter 2023 earnings conference call. Our earnings released after the close of market yesterday, and you'll find the press release and earnings presentation posted to our website under the Investors section at albemarle.com. Joining me on the call today are Kent Masters, chief executive officer; and Scott Tozier, chief financial officer; Netha Johnson, president of specialties; and Eric Norris, president of energy storage are also available for Q&A. As a reminder, some of the statements made during this call, including our outlook, guidance, expected company performance, and timing of expansion projects, may constitute forward-looking statements.

Please note the cautionary language about forward-looking statements contained in our press release and earnings presentation, which also applies to this call. Please also note that some of our comments today refer to non-GAAP financial measures. Reconciliations can be found in our earnings materials. Now I'll turn the call over to Kent.


Kent Masters -- Chairman, President, and Chief Executive Officer

Thank you, Meredith. Our second-quarter results continued the positive trend from last quarter, with net sales up 60% and EBITDA up 69% versus the same period last year. We have increased our energy storage outlook for 2023 based on current market prices. Of course, the long-term shift to electric vehicles is well-established and growing.

Automakers are planning ahead to accommodate that future growth. For example, we signed a strategic agreement with Ford to supply over 100,000 metric tons of lithium hydroxide over a five-year period, starting in 2026. One of the reasons our customers choose Albemarle is our commitment to sustainability. In June, our Salar de Atacama site became the first lithium resource in the world to complete an independent audit and have its audit report published by IRMA, the Initiative for Responsible Mining Assurance.

We achieved an IRMA 50 level of performance and a third-party auditor verified that the Salar site met 70% of over 400 rigorous IRMA requirements, covering topics such as water management, human rights, greenhouse gas emissions, fair labor, and terms of work. Also during the quarter, Albemarle's growth and impact on the energy transition were recognized by inclusion in the Fortune 500 rankings and in the TIME100 Most Influential Companies list. We continue to invest in future capacity to meet long-term demand. The Salar yield improvement project reached mechanical completion on schedule, and the Meishan project in China is ahead of schedule, with mechanical completion expected in early 2024.

Last month, we announced agreements to simplify and amend our joint venture with Mineral Resources. I'll update you on these activities later in the presentation. And for now, I'll hand it over to Scott to walk you through our financial results.

Scott Tozier -- Chief Financial Officer

Thanks, Kent, and hello, everyone. On Slide 5, let's review our second-quarter performance. Net sales were $2.4 billion, up 60% compared to last year. This nearly $1 billion increase was driven by energy storage as a result of both higher market pricing and higher volumes, which were up almost 40%.

Net income attributable to Albemarle was approximately $650 million, up 60% compared to the prior year. Diluted EPS was $$5.52, also up almost 60%, and adjusted diluted EPS of $7.33 was more than double last year. At the end of July, we reached agreements in principle with the Department of Justice on a matter that we initially disclosed in 2018 related to conduct in our catch-in business occurring prior to 2018. Our Q2 GAAP results include an approximately $219 million accrual to resolve this matter.

Looking at Slide number 6. Second-quarter adjusted EBITDA was over $1 billion, an increase of nearly 70% year over year, driven primarily by higher pricing as well as higher volumes in energy storage. Our specialties business was down year over year due to lower volumes and pricing related to weakness in certain end markets such as electronics and [Technical Difficulty], insurance claim receipts, and lower energy costs. Let's look at the updated total company outlook on Slide 7.

We are raising our 2023 guidance for net sales and adjusted EBITDA to reflect current lithium market prices. As has been our practice, this guidance assumes recent lithium market price indices are constant for the remainder of the year. And as a result, we have increased the lower end of the range for net sales. We now expect 2023 total company net sales to be in the range of $10.4 billion to $11.5 billion.

We expect third-quarter net sales to be relatively flat sequentially followed by an increase in fourth-quarter net sales as we ramp energy storage volumes. We are increasing our adjusted EBITDA guidance to be in the range of $3.8 billion to $4.4 billion. This implies full-year EBITDA margins in the range of 37% to 38%, also up from previous guidance. Our full-year 2023 adjusted diluted EPS guidance is also increasing to a range of $25 to $29.50, reflecting a year-over-year improvement of about 25% at the midpoint.

We expect our net cash from operations to be in the range of $1.2 billion to $1.8 billion. This is a decrease in outlook driven primarily by two factors. First, higher working capital related to the timing of our energy storage shipments. We now expect lithium sales volumes to be weighted toward the back half of the year, particularly in Q4, due to the timing of our growth projects and tolling volumes.

This is expected to result in higher accounts receivable at year-end, which will convert to cash in early 2024. Second, this outlook assumes that the DOJ payment of approximately $219 million is made by year-end. Our capex guidance has increased to $1.9 billion to $2.1 billion. This increase reflects the revised agreements with Mineral Resources.

Following these revisions, Albemarle will maintain 100% ownership of the Kemerton, Qinzhou, and Meishan lithium processing plants. Apart from this change, capital spending is in line with previous forecasts. Turning to the next slide for more detail on our outlook by segment. We're increasing our full-year 2023 energy storage net sales guidance to be in the range of $7.9 billion to $8.8 billion.

energy storage volume growth is expected to be at the higher end of the previous range of 30% to 40% year over year thanks to increased tolling and successful project execution. We also project average realized pricing increases to be at the higher end of the previous range of 20% to 30% year over year, assuming recent lithium market prices continue through the rest of 2023. Adjusted EBITDA for energy storage is expected to increase in the range of $3.5 billion to $3.9 billion. This 15% to 30% increase is due to higher net sales, which we expect to more than offset the timing impacts of higher-priced spodumene inventories.

In specialties, we continue to see pressure in our end markets. Weakness in consumer and industrial electronics and elastomers is only partially offset by strong demand in other markets like pharmaceuticals, agriculture, and oilfield services. Similar to other specialty chemicals companies, we are reducing our outlook for the full year 2023. Net sales are now expected in the range of $1.5 billion to $1.6 billion, and adjusted EBITDA is anticipated to be between $385 million and $440 million.

Q2 is expected to be the weakest quarter of the year. We took advantage of the recent market slowdown to pull forward planned maintenance and reduce inventory to maximize efficiency and free cash flow in the second half of 2023. Ketjen's 2023 full-year adjusted EBITDA is expected to be up 325% to 425% over the prior year. This increase in outlook is due primarily to insurance recoveries, which are not expected to recur, as well as ongoing recovery in refining prices and improved processing costs.

As a reminder, most of our energy storage volumes are sold under long-term contracts with strategic customers. On Slide 9, we've updated our expected 2023 net sales mix to reflect recent lithium market prices. Due to the recent rebound in lithium pricing, our full-year 2023 net sales mix is now expected to be 80% index referenced variable price contracts and 20% spot. There's been no other change to our contract philosophy or structure of these contracts.

Our strategy to deliver long-term growth remains on track. Turning to Slide 10. We continue to expect year-over-year energy storage volume growth in the range of 30% to 40% in 2023. We anticipate coming in at the higher end of that range, primarily driven by the La Negra 3/4 expansion, the acquisition of the Qinzhou conversion asset plus additional tolling.

With additional conversion assets coming online in 2024, we still anticipate a 20% to 30% CAGR in Albemarle sales volumes between now and 2027. We remain on track to nearly triple sales volumes to more than 300,000 tonnes. Our revised energy storage outlook implies EBITDA margins of around 45% for 2023, up from the prior outlook based on higher market prices. As a reminder, year-over-year margins are expected to normalize from the very high level seen in late 2022 and early 2023, primarily related to spodumene inventory lags at our Talison joint venture.

On average, it takes at least six months for spodumene to go from our mines through conversion to our customers. Last year, we saw dramatic increases in prices for lithium and spodumene. Due to the time lag on spodumene inventory, we realized higher lithium pricing faster than higher spodumene cost of goods sold. This year is the reverse.

As prices decline, we are realizing lower lithium prices faster than lower spodumene costs, and we expect the majority of this impact is going to recur in the third quarter. The next item affecting margins is the accounting treatment of the MARBL joint venture. Under the amended agreements with Mineral Resources, we expect to continue to market and toll Wodgina product during 2023. As a result, we will recognize 100% of the net sales from MARBL but only our share of EBITDA.

The result is about a 5% lower reported margin for 2023. Finally, our reported EBITDA margins are impacted by tax expense at Talison. Talison net income is included in our EBITDA on an after-tax basis. If you adjusted Talison results to exclude tax, margins would be about 6%.

Turning to Slide 12, we will continue to invest with discipline, allocating our capital and cash flows to support our highest return growth opportunities. Our primary use of capital remains organic growth projects to leverage our low-cost resources in Australia and the Americas. Beyond organic growth, we also consider a broad range of M&A opportunities primarily across three areas: lithium resources, process technology for our core business and for new advanced materials, and battery recycling. As previously disclosed in March, Albemarle submitted an indicative proposal to acquire Liontown Resources, our preproduction spodumene resource in Australia.

To date, the Liontown Board has not meaningfully engaged in progressing the transaction. Another example of our strategy is the acquisition of the Western Lithium subsidiary of Lithium Power International that we completed in July in a cash transaction of just over $20 million. This purchase provides Albemarle with prospective exploration tenements near our Greenbushes spodumene mine, regarded as one of the world's best hard rock lithium mine. And this week, we announced an investment in Patriot Battery Metals.

This investment provides a 4.9% interest in a prospective spodumene deposit located in Northern Quebec. We intend to maintain our track record of a disciplined M&A process to accelerate higher return growth while preserving financial flexibility and maintaining our investment-grade credit rating. Our balance sheet flexibility is a competitive advantage that allows us to grow both organically and through acquisition as well as support our dividend. And with that, I'll turn it back over to Kent for a market update and closing remarks.

Kent Masters -- Chairman, President, and Chief Executive Officer

Thanks, Scott. One of the reasons we can report strong financial results is our disciplined operating model. We call it the Albemarle Way of Excellence. Our four operating pillars are high-performance culture, competitive capabilities, operational discipline, and a sustainable approach.

And these aren't just words, they are principles that guide our decision-making. Today, I'll highlight operational discipline, which includes business, manufacturing, and capital project excellence. Through initiatives and operational discipline, we've targeted $250 million in productivity benefits over this year and the next, and we are on track to exceed that goal. Our goal in manufacturing excellence is to drive best-in-class discipline and operating efficiency, with a target of $150 million of savings over the next two years.

Across our businesses, we realized value in our manufacturing operations through yield improvements and better utilization of raw materials and energy. Through Project AI, which we call Albemarle Intelligence, we're leveraging machine learning to optimize our manufacturing processes. Our global procurement team is strategically sourcing to pull purchasing and capture raw materials and logistics efficiency enhancements in real time. With continuous improvement, we are targeting $100 million of productivity benefits this year.

Another execution principle under operational discipline is capital projects excellence. Our focus on capital project execution is paying off with four global projects progressing on time and on budget, including the Salar Yield Improvement Project, Meishan, Richburg, and Kings Mountain. As we continue to develop projects around the world, our objective is to build the structure, capabilities, discipline, and design approach that enable faster capacity growth at lower capital intensity. Turning to Slide 14 for an update on more of our capital projects.

In Chile, I'm pleased to report that our Salar Yield Improvement Project recently achieved mechanical completion on time and has transitioned into commissioning. In Australia, Kemerton I continues to produce battery-grade products subject to customer qualification. While there have been challenges, particularly in light of the very tight labor market in Western Australia, we are proud of our Australian team as they commission that plant and deliver products to our customers. We are applying what we've learned to the construction of Kemerton II and Kemerton III and IV projects have recently gated into execution.

In China, Qinzhou is ramping up on budget and on schedule to nameplate capacity. And the construction of Meishan is progressing on budget and ahead of schedule, with mechanical completion now expected in early 2024. As mentioned earlier in the call, we have agreed to amend the terms of the transaction signed earlier this year with Mineral Resources. Under the amended agreements, we will acquire 100% ownership of Kemerton and retain 100% ownership of Meishan and Qinzhou lithium conversion assets.

Other key aspects of the February 2023 agreement remain in effect, including a 50-50 ownership of the Wodgina mine and an April 2022 economic effective date. The transfer of 10% interest in Wodgina is exchanged for 25% interest in Kemerton. Upon closing, we expect to pay Mineral Resources $380 million to $400 million. About half is related to the purchase of the remaining 15% ownership stake in Kemerton and about half relates to economic effective date settlements and other transaction costs.

This transaction is anticipated to close later this year after we received Australian regulatory approvals. On Slide 15. EV sales over the last quarter indicate 2023 global electric vehicle sales are on track for 40% growth. After a slower start to the year, EV sales have picked up with global sales up 41% and China up 45% year over year through June.

China has regained growth momentum, with June representing the largest monthly EV sales since last December. In Europe, easing supply chain issues have lifted sales by about 20% year to date. Despite mixed macroeconomic conditions, the outlook for global full-year EV demand remains resilient, driven by the introduction of new models, new incentives, and the expansion of charging infrastructure. Since May, we have seen a rebound in lithium market pricing driven by downstream restocking and strong EV and battery production.

Customers are returning to the spot market after destocking to unsustainably low levels of inventory against the backdrop of growing demand, with lithium inventories decreasing in the supply chain over the last few months. Global lithium supply demand remains relatively balanced, driven by increased EV demand as well as challenges in bringing on new projects. As we continue to expand our lithium capacity, our scale, global footprint, and vertical integration positions Albemarle to sustainably meet growing customer demand. While we're pleased that the lithium market remains strong, we continue to focus on managing the things that are within our control for long-term value creation.

We're delivering growth in both sales and earnings. We anticipate 2023 sales to be up 40% to 55% over last year with healthy margins. While the EV market is clearly the star at the moment, we are a global leader in world-class long-term assets and a diversified product portfolio with broad opportunities in the mobility, energy, connectivity, and health markets. Our focus on sustainability is not only aligned to our values, it also aligns with our customers' values and creates an advantage for us in the marketplace.

Our strategy is clear, our markets are growing and our discipline in both how we operate and how we allocate capital gives us an edge across economic cycles. With that, I'd like to turn the call back over to the operator to begin the Q&A portion.